Add cmake build copied from COSIMA/access-om3 (#6)
ACCESS-NRI/CICE: configuration/scripts/cmake/CMakeLists.txt

# Copyright ACCESS-NRI and contributors. See the top-level LICENSE file for details.

cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.18)

#[==============================================================================[
#                         Basic project definition                              #
#]==============================================================================]

project(CICE 
        DESCRIPTION "CICE Sea Ice Model"
        HOMEPAGE_URL https://github.com/ciCE-Consortium/cice
        LANGUAGES C Fortran)

#[==============================================================================[
#                                   Options                                     #
#]==============================================================================]

message(STATUS "Build options")

option(CICE_IO "CICE IO Method" OFF)
if (NOT CICE_IO)
  set(CICE_IO "Binary") #set a default
endif()
if(NOT CICE_IO MATCHES "^(NetCDF|PIO|Binary)$")
  message(FATAL_ERROR " CICE_IO   ${CICE_IO} not valid, choose NetCDF|PIO|Binary")
else()
  message(STATUS "  - CICE_IO   ${CICE_IO}")
endif()

> option(ACCESS3_CICE    "Use ACCESS3 dependencies and install ACCESS3 libraries" OFF)

Reviewer: Same comment as for MOM6: it's considered good practice to append option names with the project name.

Reviewer 2: Ok done

  set(CMAKE_C_FLAGS_DEBUG "-O0 -g")
else()
  message(WARNING "C compiler with ID ${CMAKE_C_COMPILER_ID} will be used with CMake default options")
endif()

if (CESMCOUPLED)
  add_compile_definitions(
    CESMCOUPLED
  )
endif()

## Fortran modules path; currently this is simply set to be the include dir
set(CMAKE_INSTALL_MODULEDIR ${CMAKE_INSTALL_INCLUDEDIR}
  CACHE STRING
  "Fortran module installation path (Not a cmake native variable)"
)

#[==============================================================================[
#                              External packages                                #
#]==============================================================================]

if(ACCESS3_CICE)
  find_package(Access3Share REQUIRED cdeps timing share nuopc_cap_share) 
  if(NOT TARGET ESMF::ESMF) #Access3Share probably already has ESMF with PUBLIC interface
    message(FATAL_ERROR "ESMF interface missing from Access3Share package")  
  endif()
else()
  find_package(MPI REQUIRED)
endif()

if(OPENMP)
  find_package(OpenMP REQUIRED COMPONENTS Fortran)
endif()

if(CICE_IO MATCHES "^(NetCDF|PIO)$" AND NOT TARGET NetCDF::NetCDF_Fortran)

>   find_package(NetCDF 4.7.3 REQUIRED Fortran)

Reviewer: Is there a reason to not allow earlier versions of NetCDF? If so, would be good to have it written here as a comment.

Reviewer 2: This is the same as the cosima/access-om3 CMakeLists. I am not really included to figure out which old builds work, so maybe I should remove the version number? It looks like the first version with a cmake build was 4.4

Reviewer: Oh, then I'm actually the one that knows the answer to that question.

```suggestion
  # Code has not been tested with versions older than 4.7.3, but probably still works fine 
  find_package(NetCDF 4.7.3 REQUIRED Fortran)
```

endif()
if(CICE_IO MATCHES "PIO" AND NOT TARGET PIO::PIO_Fortran)

>   find_package(PIO 2.5.3 REQUIRED COMPONENTS Fortran)

Reviewer: Same thing here, what is the reason to require PIO version >= 2.5.3?

Reviewer 2: Ok i added the same note

  ${CICE_CORE}/cicedyn/infrastructure/comm/mpi/ice_global_reductions.F90
  ${CICE_CORE}/cicedyn/infrastructure/comm/mpi/ice_reprosum.F90
  ${CICE_CORE}/cicedyn/infrastructure/comm/mpi/ice_timers.F90
)

if(CICE_DRIVER MATCHES "nuopc/cmeps")
  target_sources(cicelib PRIVATE
    # NUOPC CMEPS driver
    ${CICE_CORE}/drivers/${CICE_DRIVER}/CICE_FinalMod.F90
    ${CICE_CORE}/drivers/${CICE_DRIVER}/CICE_InitMod.F90
    ${CICE_CORE}/drivers/${CICE_DRIVER}/CICE_RunMod.F90
    ${CICE_CORE}/drivers/${CICE_DRIVER}/cice_wrapper_mod.F90
    ${CICE_CORE}/drivers/${CICE_DRIVER}/ice_comp_nuopc.F90
    ${CICE_CORE}/drivers/${CICE_DRIVER}/ice_import_export.F90
    ${CICE_CORE}/drivers/${CICE_DRIVER}/ice_mesh_mod.F90
    ${CICE_CORE}/drivers/${CICE_DRIVER}/ice_prescribed_mod.F90
    ${CICE_CORE}/drivers/${CICE_DRIVER}/ice_scam.F90
    ${CICE_CORE}/drivers/${CICE_DRIVER}/ice_shr_methods.F90
  )
elseif(CICE_DRIVER MATCHES "standalone/cice")
  target_sources(cicelib PRIVATE
    # CICE standalone
    ${CICE_CORE}/drivers/${CICE_DRIVER}/CICE_FinalMod.F90
    ${CICE_CORE}/drivers/${CICE_DRIVER}/CICE_InitMod.F90
    ${CICE_CORE}/drivers/${CICE_DRIVER}/CICE_RunMod.F90
  )
else()

>   message(FATAL_ERROR "CICE_DRIVER: ${CICE_DRIVER} not supported, add to cmake")

Reviewer: Not sure if the error message will be very clear to users. Maybe the following would be better?

```suggestion
  message(FATAL_ERROR "CICE_DRIVER: ${CICE_DRIVER} is currently not supported by the CMake build system")
```

endif()

# Select IO source files based on CICE_IO
if(CICE_IO MATCHES "NetCDF")
  target_sources(cicelib PRIVATE
    ${CICE_CORE}/cicedyn/infrastructure/io/io_netcdf/ice_history_write.F90
    ${CICE_CORE}/cicedyn/infrastructure/io/io_netcdf/ice_restart.F90
  )
elseif(CICE_IO MATCHES "PIO")
  target_sources(cicelib PRIVATE
    ${CICE_CORE}/cicedyn/infrastructure/io/io_pio2/ice_history_write.F90
    ${CICE_CORE}/cicedyn/infrastructure/io/io_pio2/ice_pio.F90
    ${CICE_CORE}/cicedyn/infrastructure/io/io_pio2/ice_restart.F90
  )
elseif(CICE_IO MATCHES "Binary")
  target_sources(cicelib PRIVATE
    ${CICE_CORE}/cicedyn/infrastructure/io/io_binary/ice_history_write.F90
    ${CICE_CORE}/cicedyn/infrastructure/io/io_binary/ice_restart.F90
  )
endif()

#[==============================================================================[
#                             Install or Export                                 #
#]==============================================================================]

if(ACCESS3_CICE)
  ## Library
  set_target_properties(cicelib PROPERTIES
    OUTPUT_NAME access-cicelib
    EXPORT_NAME cicelib
  )
  install(TARGETS cicelib
    EXPORT CicelibTargets

>     LIBRARY DESTINATION ${CMAKE_INSTALL_LIBDIR} COMPONENT AccessCICECmeps_runtime NAMELINK_COMPONENT AccessCICECmeps_Development

Reviewer: Might want to remove `Cmeps` from the component name, as it's probably not needed.

Reviewer 2: Ok done
